---
layout: post
title: Unconventional Configuration?
---
One of my goals when starting work on my Rails project was that I wanted to really focus on the backend. The backend requirements for this project were much more complex than the simple CRUD-ing from my Sinatra project, and so I wanted to spend most of my energy there. I really enjoy putting together awesome frontends and designing a UI that's functional and appealing, but I didn't want to get too caught up in frontend work when I knew that my energy would need to be focused on the backend. My solution? Using a template. This seemed like a reasonable solution: grab an existing template that used Bootstrap, which I was already familiar with, and I could have a nice, out-of-the-box solution that worked without too much messing around. This is not what happened. Rails is known for prioritizing convention over configuration and this is especially problematic when trying to implement an out-of-the-box UI solution. The template I was using was clearly intended for a Javascript-heavy application and would have probably worked great with Node.js. However, with Rails, the asset pipeline proved to be an issue. Trying to cut apart the template so that it would fit into the structure of a Rails app proved to be a tedious process. Additionally, my lack of knowledge about Javascript made it difficult to parse out some of the features that were baked into the template's Javascript package. Overall, I don't regret this; I was able to get my hands dirty with the asset pipeline and learn some things about how Rails handles outside Javascript and CSS. Even though I didn't get my quick, out-of-the-box solution, the experience of slicing up a template to make it work with Rails taught me a lot about how Rails works and also gave me some great ideas for how Javascript could make my app really pop, even if I couldn't implement those features right away. If I were going to rebuild my UI from scratch, I would probably go with a more vanilla Bootstrap solution, but I think the knowledge gained was worth the hassle.
